# Memo

Earendil was formed to craft software and open protocols to strengthen human
agency.

Open standards, the Internet and AI all have the power to greatly enhance what
humanity can achieve. We believe it is important that we build mechanisms that
strengthen our capabilities rather than diminish them. Technology should
enhance our ability to realize our intentions, it should work to empower
networks as a whole rather than select actors.

Because of that our approach towards crafting technology is deliberately biased
towards artifacts like URLs, emails, web protocols and open source software.

Ambitiously, we want to build a company that excels at improving communication
(be it human-machine, machine-human, human-human or machine-machine). We want
to help humans communicate more effectively and truthfully, while at the same
time onboarding machines onto humanity’s greatest communication protocol. We
want to help map human intent to machines with maximum truth and minimal loss.
We may one day even look to help optimize how intelligent machines communicate
amongst one another with new languages.

Email is the most popular cross-lingual open standard for natural language
communication in the world. It has proven staying power. It remains popular 55
years after its initial creation. It is the central repository for our auth
flows, meaningful digital correspondence, and remains impossible to fully
replace. It is in short “the command line for everyone else.”

Despite that, the incentives of current email providers do not align with those
of their users. This has led to the degradation and neglect of the most popular
set of email products.

In a world where machines now have unparalleled ability to understand and
process natural language, we think there is inherent value in bridging machines
to the email protocol and strengthening the utility of that protocol for
humanity. We believe both that email is an optimal place from which people
should conduct AI inference, orchestrate agentic work, and also that email is
one of the richest repositories of data from which to add context to that same
inference and agentic work. Our initial hypotheses in terms of which products
we would like to build reflect this belief.

Technically, email also continues to be a protocol that is difficult for
developers to grasp. Developers are more likely to be familiar with the web
than they are with email. We believe that this is a problem in its own right
that needs solving. As natural language software becomes more ubiquitous, we
think there is a valuable opportunity to own mind share and build a reputation
for being experts in email.

Bringing machines into email unlocks machine-augmented group communications. It
means individual humans can begin having conversations with multiple models
synchronously, and that multiple humans can communicate concurrently with a
model, reducing the harmful impact of hallucinations or AI intent capture. When
machines can effectively communicate with groups of humans over email, which is
the primary way that humans make decisions asynchronously, we can improve the
quality of our decision making.

Our goal is to strengthen human agency. We think we can do that primarily by
improving the quality and clarity of our communication with one another and the
machines we use every day. Clarity of purpose, and the alignment of intent with
outcomes are goals not only for the consequences of the software we write but
also of the Company we build.
